welcome back to natural language
processing today we're going to start a
new section on text summarization which
is one of the most interesting parts in
natural language processing so here's a
very simple introduction to text
summarization we want to be able to get
as input set of documents for example
about health so here we have a bunch of
sentences about eating vegetables and
foods and the reasons why they're
healthy I mean they often users don't
have the time to read a lot of details
and we want to be able to produce a
summary of them for two reasons one so
that they can read somebody instead of
the original documents if they don't
have enough time or even more
realistically to show them the summary
so that they get an idea what the
document is all about and then once they
read the summary they can decide whether
they want to go and read the full set of
documents so in this example the summary
that we would like to get out of there
is no today there's no summarization
system currently that can do this we
want to get a short summary like this
eating vegetables is healthy so this is
a very extreme example of text
summarization which as I said is not
practically feasible at this point but
there are many instances of existing
summarization systems at work and
produce meaningful summaries that are
actually useful for users so let's look
at some examples
what kind of summaries we want to be
able to produce one is new summarization
we want to get for example cluster of
documents that are related to each other
and would use a short summary like the
one that appears in the middle of the
page of everything that happened in this
set of related documents we can also put
his book summaries so here's an example
we can have something like Cliff's Notes
which probably everybody knows about
this notes are short descriptions of
what happens in some large book plus
some additional comments about the
characters and the plot and the
techniques used in the book here's a
funny example there's a website called
book a minute where people have spent
time to summarize famous books into
really really short version
so here's one can you guess which book
it is some boys crash on an island and
then valve says repeatedly we need a
fire they make a fire it goes out that
this happens a few times then jack says
forget the fire let's cue each other the
other boys say yeah and they do kill
each other at the end so this is again a
tongue-in-cheek summary of a famous book
can you guess which one it is
yeah so this book is obviously Lord of
the Flies by Golding and it was out a
condensed to use that term by David
Parker and Samuel Stoddard on the rink
works.com so more examples of some of
his movie summaries so you have some
like Titanic and short summaries of it
for example beginning in genuine footage
of the departure of the Titanic on its
fateful voyage this epic movie tells the
events of that tragic night from the
perspective of fictional survivor roles
as an old lady of a hundred she recounts
the story of duty love and disaster to
salvage crew searching for lost gem and
obviously there many different summaries
that you can put this first given movie
obviously if you go to a website like I
am DB you can get hundreds of somebody's
written by different people and as you
can see the sum is often can look very
different from one another and yet have
the same goal namely to capture the gist
of the movie or book or other piece of
work another type of summaries are
search engine snippets the difference
between those and the ones we looked at
previous is that those are query based
so search engines return little passages
from the retrieved documents that are
most similar to the query so here's an
example I did a search for our Cloud
Atlas which is a science fiction book
and as you can see the top hits that are
returned here by Google are accompanied
by short passages or snippets and the
words Cloud Atlas and the name of the
author are highlighted there are many
different genres of summaries we have
also headlines
so headline can be construed as a very
short summary of a
documents of a new story for example an
outline can be produced for many
different genres of dock which it could
be an outline of a book an outline of a
meeting an outline of an encyclopedia
entry or paper and so on
it can also be minutes of meetings
biographies of people for example in
obituaries or just plain biographies
they can be abridgements so beach months
or books are typically shorter versions
for different audiences perhaps for
younger children or for people who don't
have that much time they can be
soundbites it should just some small
snippets of audio from an interview or
from some event they can be movie
summaries chronologies and so on and I
want to give credit for this taxonomy to
in digit money and may mark memory from
the 99 paper so what types of summaries
can there be well we already saw some of
them but how do we distinguish between
the different types of sample is well
one of the factors is what's the input
is it a single document or multiple
documents is it grammatical text or not
was the output is it grammatical
sentences or perhaps just a few cue
words is it speech or text what's the
purpose is it intended to replace the
original document or is it just
indicative in which case it just tells
you what the original document is about
but doesn't give you all the details
about it they can also be something
called critical summaries where you are
summarizing for example a book or movie
but you're also giving some subjective
information about how you feel about the
form can be either extractive or
obstructive so extracts are usually a
representative paragraphs or sentences
or phrases from a document whereas
abstracts can be reformulated in
different using different words and I in
general to quote from a pace paper from
1990 are concise summary of the central
subject matter of a document the other
dimensions to take into account whether
the documents are is
based on a single multiple document
input the contact is very important is
it query specific for example how is
this document related to let's say trade
talks versus generic I mean what's a
genetically a good summary of this
document regardless of the context okay
so a typical summarization system can
have up to three stages typically there
are the following the first stage is
Content identification so given your
input documents you have to determine
what information you want to preserve
and pass on to the next stage so that
could be some specific sentences or
named entities or facts the next thing
is how to organize this information you
want to combine information from
multiple documents do you want to
preserve entire sentences do you want to
the orchidarium and finally have
realization so in the realization you
have to deal with some additional issues
for example if you take two documents
and you one sentence from each of them
they may not read nicely next to each
other so it's possible that the
realization stage would include the
generation of some connectives for
example for example or therefore or in
contrast so that the sentences that came
from different sources can be tied
together more coherently or realization
can include the generation of some
referring expression such as this person
or he or she so here's an example of an
extractive Samuraizer it takes as input
a news story as you can see the news
story consists of about ten sentences
and then we want the summary to include
the most important facts that are
underlined and shown in red here you can
see that a purely extractive summarizer
would just underline those passages and
sentences and present that as the
summary so in this case realization is
practically non-existent because we are
just preserving information from the
original documents as it appears in
exactly the same order one important
thing to mention here is that extracting
summarization can come in two different
kinds the first kind is where you have
only full sentences like without the
last sentence in this example here or
you can have portions of sentences that
still counts as an extractive summarizer
even if you're not extracting the entire
sentences so it turns out that
summarization is something that humans
have been doing for years for example
there are professional abstractors that
read scientific articles and create
create manual abstracts of those that go
into different bibliometric databases
and here's a nice quote from many years
ago from four years ago by Ashworth
about what professional abstractors do
quote-unquote to take an original
article understand it and pack it neatly
into a nutshell without loss of
substance or clarity presents a
challenge which many have felt worth
taking up for the joys of achievement
alone these are the characteristics of
an art form so this passage very clearly
indicates that summarization is a very
difficult task that humans may or may
not be good at but that it involves some
sufficient some very significant amount
of craftsmanship ok let's now focus on
some specific types of summaries for
example extractive summarization so as I
mentioned before extracting some
organization is about selecting eunuchs
from the original text and presenting
them in the order in which they appear
there the units are usually sentences in
one of the most common scenarios there
is no simplification of the sentences
allows you're not allowed to skip any
portions of them or replacing words with
others though here writing is allowed so
it turns out that from some genres of
documents there is a very important
baseline that is very hard to beat for
extracted summarization and that is the
so-called need-based baseline so in lead
based summaries you have a certain
amount of text that you're allowed to
produce as part of the summary for
example let's say the equivalent of two
sentences or five sentences so the
baseline is to extract as many sentences
from the beginning of the document as
you are allowed to produce in the output
so 2 or 5 in this example it turns out
many evaluation metrics and for many
genres of text the first few sentences
of the
which are in fact the most informative
sentences well luckily for researchers
in this field this is not the case in
most of the other genres so it's
possible to come up with techniques that
I am and better so we're going to now
continue with some additional
considerations about summarization in
the next segment